[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: The question was why
are we organizing things into modules?
>> Speaker 2: To hide the internal stuff.
>> Kyle Simpson: So the major reason for
organizing things into modules
is if you zoom out and
you don't pay any attention to those
internal details, or if you code fold and
you ignore the internal details,
the major thing here
is that we are able to declare private
internal details that's a function.
That's a function, we've got a bunch
of private internal variables.
We don't want to expose that
stuff to the outside world.
If that stuff was global variables or
global functions, there's an extremely
high chance that some other file
also declaring global variables or
global functions could accidentally
override or collide with one of ours.
So we don't want global variables
because of the high chance of collusion,
the high chance of accidentally overriding
variables that we weren't intending to.
Those are all negatives in code and
that's what most people refer
to as kind of the wild,
wild west spaghetti coding of JavaScript.
That's where everybody starts.
As we're learning, we start putting
stuff in the global scope, but
the next step of maturity is to
say I don't wanna put that stuff
in the global scope,
I wanna wrap it up inside of a module.
So I put this stuff inside of a module and
then only the stuff that's
public needs to be public.
So here, that carousel.init is the only
thing that needed to be public.
All the rest of these details, these
functions and variables, all that stuff is
private and there's no reason to expose it
to give us the potential for collision.
The primary principle here is that
modules give us encapsulation
which is a fancy $25 word for
saying private stuff,
>> Kyle Simpson: Leslie asks,
in most cases,
will our return be init init.
Well, I've set up this example
that we're going through,
this exercise today
artificially to look like that.
Most of my modules have
several methods on the API.
But our simple example that
we're going through here
is just focusing on keeping as
much stuff private as possible.
So we aren't seeing any examples yet,
although we will,
we're not seeing any example yet
of any need for other public API stuff.
This question says this closure pattern
looks to me like declaring a class.
What's the main difference?
Does the class handle the DOM and jQuery?
So there's a bunch of different stuff in
that question that we don't wanna mix up.
This code organization decision
about whether we use a module or
whether we try to implement something
that looks like classes, has absolutely
nothing to do with what we're dealing with
in the DOM or CSS or any of that stuff.
It doesn't deal with jQuery or whatever.
It's really just a question of how do we
organize our functions and variables.
It's at the JavaScript level
that we're asking this question.
It doesn't matter what
we put on top of it.
So at the JavaScript level, the question
is, is the module my better hammer,
or is the class thing that people try
to do in JavaScript my better hammer?
And I could make a dozen different
observations about differences, but
the major one that I'll make an
observation about here is that the thing
that people call classes in JavaScript
does not offer any notion of privacy.
Everything in a quote unquote
class in JavaScript is public.
By default, everything in a module
as we're seeing here is private, and
you get to decide what to make public.
So that's the first, probably biggest,
observation that I could
make about the differences,
although there are dozens of other
differences that we could go into.
There are some comments being made about
it's not really classical inheritance.
Yeah, I'm not a class fan at all.
I don't like classes.
I definitely don't like them for
JavaScript because JavaScript doesn't
really actually have classes.
And I do in my advanced course as
well as in my object prototypes book,
I do go through what I
call classless objects.
It's a way of defining objects and
using prototype delegation without
the notion of classes at all.
I think that's a much better
way of going about it.
The little catch phrase that I have for
it, instead OO which is what people
mean when they say object oriented
programming, instead of OO,
I coined the phrase OLOO which stands for
objects linked to other objects.
So there is a pattern for
dealing with objects that doesn't bring
any of the complexity of classes into it.
>> Kyle Simpson: The question was asked
what scenarios makes sense to ever pass in
a parameter to an IIFE?
That's a great question,
it's outside of our exercise but
it's a good enough question.
Let me take a quick little side note.
So set our exercise aside for
just a moment.
Let's pretend you're not even going
to deal with the module design,
you just have a bunch of stuff in
a file a bunch of random functions and
variables in a file and you wanna organize
that file so that stuff isn't global.
Well the easiest way to do
that is to have an IIFE
wrapping around the entire
contents of your file.
So you start the IIFE at the top,
you end the IIFE at the bottom and
all your spaghetti goes here.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay?
And in the early days of me learning
JavaScript, this was the most important
thing I did was just go through and
find all of my files that I had a bunch of
global stuff, and wrap an IIFE around
the entire contents of the file, so
that stuff's private inside of
a function instead of public.
Now, some stuff needs to be public,
otherwise there would be no point to
any of the contents of that file.
If none of it's being accessed anywhere,
then that whole file is pointless and
you should just delete it.
So let's imagine that I have 100
different variables and functions and
I wrap a big IIFE around all
the contents in that file, and
then I try to run my program and
I notice that two of them are breaking.
The other 98 of them aren't
ever accessed anywhere else.
But what I've concluded then is that I got
98 things which ought to be private and
2 things which ought to be public.
This isn't even asking
the question about modules,
it's just asking a question
about access of variables.
So let's imagine I had 98
private things here and
I'd just leave those 98 private
things completely alone.
All right, the two things that did need
to be made public, I could easily make
them public by just simply adding them
as references on the window object.
So I could say something, if there
was a thing called foo in here and
I needed to make that public,
I could say window.foo equals foo.
And if there was another one called bar,
I could say window.bar equals bar.
That makes references on the global object
to these internal private things and
that makes them accessible to the outside
world, just like they were before.
So 98 different things stay private,
these things get public.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
now the question back at hand was,
what scenarios would I ever
pass something into an IIFE?
Well, here's where I would do it.
Because an IIFE is just a regular
function call, I can pass stuff in.
So I could pass the window object in,
but stylistically,
I don't like using the window object name.
It doesn't really speak to me
from a JavaScript perspective.
It's a DOM thing, but
it's not a JavaScript thing.
From a JavaScript perspective,
I'd like to give it the name global.
So if I have a parameter name of global
and I pass window in as an argument to it,
essentially, global becomes an alias for
the window object.
And now inside of my code anywhere
that I need to do global stuff,
I use the word global
instead of the word window.
This is purely a stylistic thing but
there what that does for
me is it now let's me visually
see the stuff that's global,
publicly available versus
the stuff that stays private.
If I see the word global anywhere,
I know that,
it jumps out at me as a big neon sign,
that stuff is public.
>> Kyle Simpson: Finally, I would mention
that especially in the jQuery world, when
people deal with multiple frameworks being
on a page, it's very common for somebody
to say well, I got some stuff from jQuery
that I want, some stuff from prototypes,
some stuff from dojo, whatever, and they
pull in a bunch of different frameworks.
And the problem is that most of those
libraries and frameworks try to use
the same dollar sign symbol for their
main function, which is pretty annoying.
And it means that dollar sign
essentially becomes unusable
because you don't know who was
the last one to point to it.
And so a way to solve that is to pass in
the jQuery object for example, by name.
Of course, I never wanna type jQuery.
That's like the worst
variable name ever invented.
I don't wanna type that cuz I'm gonna mess
up the capitalization a thousand times in
my code, but if I pass it once by name and
I give the parameter alias dollar sign,
now inside of this IIFE,
from lines two through nine,
all of these hundreds of functions can use
dollar sign reliably because we know for
sure that inside of this IIFE,
the dollar sign always points to jQuery.
Those are the two major reasons
why I pass stuff into IIFEs.
So hopefully, that answers that question.
Next question.
>> Kyle Simpson: To what extent is
Document Ready necessary just to get
practice?
That is a really good question.
So you'll notice that I am using
Document Ready all over the place.
There's an awful lot of information
out there on the web which says if
you put your script tags at the bottom
of your body, which I have done here,
there is a lot of people out there
on the web that claim you don't
need a document ready event,
because by the time your script runs,
your document's already done parsing.
That's the claim.
That claim is false even
though most of the time,
it accidentally turns out to be true.
Technically, the DOM is not
necessarily guaranteed to be complete
even though many times,
it often is complete.
So basically what I suggest is,
don't assume anything.
The reason the document ready
event exists, it's sole reason for
existence is to allow you to wait until
you're sure that the document is ready,
that's why it's called that.
So don't assume that it's ready
until that event has fired.
As a side note on that, there's an awful
lot of stuff that we do in our apps
that doesn't care about the DOM and
people still wrap
that stuff up in a Document Ready which
is kind of an anti-pattern actually.
You're waiting unnecessarily.
For example,
let's say you need to make an Ajax call.
Ajax doesn't deal with the DOM at all.
There's no reason to put an Ajax call
inside of a document ready handler
although that's where most people do it.
So document ready specifically is for
any piece of logic
that actually deals with the DOM
because if the DOM's not ready, you're
playing wild wild west games risking
whether or not you can use it or not.
Hopefully that answered that.
Next question.
The code we covered today is
compatible with all browsers?
Yep, absolutely.
Everything I'm talking about is
straight up simple JavaScript,
we're not talking about any complex
patterns like ES6 or anything like that.
Okay, can we use objects
as a parameter and
then pass parameters
a property of the objects.
Yeah absolutely.
So the question is,
can I do something like,
if I have a function called foo and
he takes a parameter and
I call foo with an object.
>> Kyle Simpson: Can I pass in
an object like that and reference it?
Yeah absolutely you can.
I can say o.name and
that will print out a column.
>> Kyle Simpson: Kevin saying that
document ready is the same thing as DOM
content loaded?
Absolutely.
Document ready, right now what it does,
is it waits to see if that event is fired.
So they are synonymous for our purposes.
Okay, great questions by the way.
Thanks for asking all those.
Yeah you can listen for DOM content
loaded by doing window.addEventListener.
Absolutely.
Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Back to mental context,
switch back to our exercise.
We're not complete with task three yet,
but
we have made significant
progress on task three.
Are there any questions so
far on task three?
>> Speaker 3: In this case right,
like when we initially wrote,
like we wrote all the functions
within like function.ready directly,
right, all are function
scoped in this case.
So there is no like global
variables getting exposed, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: The only global
variable is this variable.
>> Speaker 3: No, no, not.
>> Kyle Simpson: We're essentially
treating these variables like namespaces.
>> Speaker 3: No,
the way we wrote initially.
>> Kyle Simpson: When everything
was inside of the document ready?
At that time, if everything is
inside of the document ready, and
it all also private, except for
the fact that most of the stuff should
not have been in the document ready.
That was the point that I made, that was
sort of the orthogonal point that I made
which is, you don't want to put all
that stuff in a document ready.
So if we had just said, I'm not even to
use modules, but I just want to refactor
that original code to only put stuff there
that's necessary, then we would have been
taking a bunch of variables and functions
and putting them out of the global scale.
That's would have been
the only place to put it.
>> Speaker 3: But like we wrapped
everything inside a function right,
like when we declared inside a function,
it just will be part of
that function scope, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well,
what I'm suggesting to you is this.
Let me open us the solutions
folder back for task one.
>> Kyle Simpson: In this code, not all
of the stuff inside of here should be,
like we have one thing that's outside
this version of the file in
another document ready, right?
So.
>> Kyle Simpson: If this had had
the document ready like it should have,
it should have said this.
>> Speaker 3: Now when we write like this,
everything these function
scoped within that function.
>> Kyle Simpson: That is true, but
the point I'm trying to make is that most
of this stuff, well not most of it, but
some of this stuff doesn't need to
be inside of the document ready.
This whole function thing here doesn't
need to be inside of a document ready
because it's not gonna be called until
long after the document's already ready.
So if I'd approached this file not
from first make it into a module
rule where we just don't put stuff
in DOM ready that you shouldn't,
the first step that I would have done is
to take that function and move it out
of the document ready because that's
the more proper place for it, right?
Now it's a function outside that
I reference by name and now,
we're faced with this same
problem that I got us to.
So I just combined both steps into one
rather than doing them separately.
We come to the same conclusion,
which is I don't want all that
stuff in the global scope.
It's a good question.
I just want to make sure you understand
I just did both steps at once.
That make sense?